README.md, before:

# Seqqurat

Tool for extracting seq-was from GWAS Catalog


## Run seqqurat

To extract the seqwas study accessions from GWAS Catalog do following procedure

1. Build the study database

```{bash}
DB_PATH=gwas.db
# Download the original study index from GWAS Catalog website
wget https://www.ebi.ac.uk/gwas/api/search/downloads/studies/v1.0.3.1
uv sync --frozen
# Build the database
uv run seqqurat study-index v1.0.3.1 $DB_PATH
```

Now you can query the `study_index` table using `duckdb cli` 

2. Extract the seq-was studies to the parquet file
```{bash}
uv run seqqurat extract-seqwas $DB_PATH --output-path seqwas.parquet
```


> [!TIP]
> Currently we support only `v1.0.3.1` version schema of the GWAS Catalog study index.


## Development

> [!NOTE]
> Run `make dev` before starting development.


### Adding new scripts

To add new sql scripts one should add them in the `seqqurat/sql` directory.


## Disclaimer

All of above is easily achievable from the `duckdb` command line without python overhead.
This repository is a proof of concept how the duckdb can be utilized to run arbitrary SQL queries within the python package.

Commit message:

fix: seqqurat load ot_db

README.md, after:

# Seqqurat

Tool for accessing OpenTargets Platform outputs via duckdb database interface.

## Run seqqurat

### Loading OpenTargets datasets

To build the local sql database with duckdb and open targets data run

```{bash}
DB_PATH=open_targets.db
# Download all data output from the ftp server.
# Load the datasets
uv run seqqurat build-ot-db --output-datasets-path /output --db-path ot.db
```

The above command will load all output datasets to the duckdb local database under
the `ot.db` file.

To view the database locally you must install the duckdb cli client. If it is installed view the database with

```{bash}
duckdb -ui ot.db
```

### Exome sequencing analysis

To extract the seqwas study accessions from GWAS Catalog do following procedure

1. Build the study database

```{bash}
DB_PATH=gwas.db
# Download the original study index from GWAS Catalog website
wget https://www.ebi.ac.uk/gwas/api/search/downloads/studies/v1.0.3.1
uv sync --frozen
# Build the database
uv run seqqurat study-index v1.0.3.1 $DB_PATH
```

Now you can query the `study_index` table using `duckdb cli`

2. Extract the seq-was studies to the parquet file

```{bash}
uv run seqqurat extract-seqwas $DB_PATH --output-path seqwas.parquet
```

> [!TIP]
> Currently we support only `v1.0.3.1` version schema of the GWAS Catalog study index.

## Development

> [!NOTE]
> Run `make dev` before starting development.

### Adding new scripts

To add new sql scripts one should add them in the `seqqurat/sql` directory.

## Disclaimer

All of above is easily achievable from the `duckdb` command line without python overhead.
This repository is a proof of concept how the duckdb can be utilized to run arbitrary SQL queries within the python package.
